.TH shell 1 "27 March 2018" "1.0" "Simple Shell Man Page"

.SH NAME
.B shell
\- command interpreter (shell)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shell

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shell 
is a simple replica of the standard command interpreter for the system.

.SS Overview
The simple shell is a program that reads lines from the terminal, interprets them, and generally executes other commands. The this version of the simple shell is considered an interactive shell, which is to say it prompts before each command.

.SS Search and Execution
There are two types of commands: builtin commands, and normal programs -- and the command is searched for (by name) in that order. They each are executed in a different way. Otherwise, if the command name doesn't match a function or builtin, the command is searched for as a normal program in the file system (as described in the next section).  When a normal program is executed, the shell runs the program, passing the arguments and the environment to the program.
.br

Shell builtins are executed internally to the shell, without spawning a new process.

.SS Path search
When locating a command, the shell first looks to see if it has a shell function by that name. Then it looks for a builtin command by that name. If a builtin command is not found, one of two things happen:

1. Command names containing a slash are simply executed without performing any searches.

2. The shell searches each entry in 
.B PATH
in turn for the command. The value of the 
.B PATH 
variable should be a series of entries separated by colons. Each entry consists of a directory name. The current directory may be indicated implicitly by an empty directory name, or explicitly by a single period.

.SS Background Commands -- &
If a command is terminated by the control operator ampersand (&), the
shell executes the command asynchronously -- that is, the shell does not
wait for the command to finish before executing the next command.
.Pp
The format for running a command in the background is:
.Pp
.D1 command [command args] &


.SS BUILTINS
This section lists the builtin commands which are builtin because they need to perform some operation that can't be performed by a separate process.

.B env
\- Prints the environment variables to stdout

.B moo
\- Prints a cow to stdout

.B exit
\- Terminate the shell process

.SH FILES

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Xr sh 1,
.Xr dash 1

.SH BUGS
No known bugs 

.SH "AUTHORS"
John Dinh, Madison Burke
